source: CFA
tags: 
relevant: 

# 5. Trade Organizations

## j. describe functions and objectives of the international organizations that facilitate trade, including the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organization.

What is the primary purpose for the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organization?
The International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and the World Trade Organization are the three major international organizations that provide necessary stability to the international monetary system and facilitate international trade and development.

What is the function of the International Monetary Fund?
The IMF's mission is to ensure the stability of the international monetary system, the system of exchange rates and international payments which enables countries to buy goods and services from each other. The IMF helps keep country-specific market risk and global systemic risk under control.

What is the function of the World Bank?
The World Bank's mission is to help developing countries fight poverty and enhance environmentally sound economic growth. It helps create the basic economic infrastructure essential for the creation and maintenance of domestic financial markets and a well-functioning financial industry in developing countries.

What is the function of the World Trade Organization?
The WTO provides the legal and institutional foundation of the multinational trading system and is the only international organization that regulates cross-border trade relations among nations on a global scale. Its mission is to foster free trade by providing a major institutional and regulatory framework of global trade rules. Without such global trade rules, today's global transactional corporations would be hard to conceive.

