source: CFA
tags: 
relevant: 
- 

# Reading 1 - Ethics and Trust in the Investment Profession

## LOS

a. explain ethics
[[115.010.10.10 Reading 1 - Ethics and Trust - LOS a. explain ethics]]

b. describe the role of a code of ethics in describing a profession
[[115.010.10.20 Reading 1 - Ethics and Trust - LOS b. the role of a code of ethics]]

c. describe professions and how they establish trust
[[115.010.10.30 Reading 1 - Ethics and Trust - LOS c. professions establishing trust]]

d. describe the need for high ethical standards in investment management
[[115.010.10.40 Reading 1 - Ethics and Trust - LOS d. the need for ethical standards]]

e. explain professionalism in investment management
[[115.010.10.50 Reading 1 - Ethics and Trust - LOS e. professionalism in investment]]

f. identify challenges to ethical behavior
[[115.010.10.60 Reading 1 - Ethics and Trust - LOS f. challenges to ethical behavior]]

g. distinguish between ethical and legal standards
[[115.010.10.70 Reading 1 - Ethics and Trust - LOS g. ethical and legal standards]]

h. describe a framework for ethical decision making
[[115.010.10.80 Reading 1 - Ethics and Trust - LOS h. framework for ethical decisions]]

## Practice test results

I read this Reading in 2 days. Now taking the practice quiz at the end of the Reading and recording my actual score here.

```
SCORE = 10/12 (83.3%)

Q	A	1/0
1	A	0 I chose CoE, correct answer was Standards of Conduct
2	B	1
3	A	1
4	B	1
5	B	1
6	C	1
7	B	1
8	C	1
9	C	1
10	B	1
11	A	0
12	C	1
```

Wrong answers and their correct answers:

Q1: Benchmarks for minimally acceptable behaviors of community members are: 
a. code of ethics
b. laws and regulations
[c]. standards of conduct. 
> I chose (a), but that is not correct. The Code of Ethics serve as a general guide for how community members should act. It is the Standards of Conduct that serve as benchmarks.

Q12: To maintain trust, the investment management profession must be interdependent with: 
a. regulators
b. employers
[c]. investment firms
> I chose (a), which is incorrect. Employers and regulators have their own standards and practices which may differ from regulations and standards set by professional bodies. 



