source: Kevin Rose newsletter
tags:
relevant:
- [[109 Productivity]]
- [[109.30 Productivity - Focus on a small number of important goals at a time]]
- [[109.45 Productivity - Prioritize and focus on one thing at a time]]
- [[107.012 Philosophy - Stoicism - Today is all I have]]
- [[116.019 Life Lessons - FOCUS on what is most important right now]]
- [[116.033 Life Lessons - What I do every day matters more than what I do every once in a while]]
- [[116.047 Life Lessons - He who best defines the problem usually wins]]

# Warren Buffet's two list rule to maximize focus

I was having a conversation with my daughter about setting goals for the coming year and this story from a Kevin Rose newsletter I received in 2017 (5 years ago) came to mind. This story is taken directly from the email.

---

## Warren Buffett's "2 List” strategy: How to maximize your focus and master your priorities

It comes as no surprise that the world's most successful investor, Warren Buffett, would have a simple but powerful method to achieve focus and master priorities. 

**The Story of Mike Flint**

Mike Flint was Buffett's personal airplane pilot for 10 years. (Flint has also flown four US Presidents, so I think we can safely say he is good at his job.) According to Flint, he was talking about his career priorities with Buffett when his boss asked the pilot to go through a 3-step exercise.

Here's how it works...

**STEP 1:**
Buffett started by asking Flint to write down his top 25 career goals. So, Flint took some time and wrote them down. (Note: you could also complete this exercise with goals for a shorter timeline. For example, write down the top 25 things you want to accomplish this week.)

**STEP 2:**
Then, Buffett asked Flint to review his list and circle his top 5 goals. Again, Flint took some time, made his way through the list, and eventually decided on his 5 most important goals.

**STEP 3:**
 At this point, Flint had two lists. The 5 items he had circled were List A and the 20 items he had not circled were List B.

Flint confirmed that he would start working on his top 5 goals right away. And that's when Buffett asked him about the second list, _"And what about the ones you didn't circle?”_

Flint replied, _"Well, the top 5 are my primary focus, but the other 20 come in a close second. They are still important so I'll work on those intermittently as I see fit. They are not as urgent, but I still plan to give them a dedicated effort."_

To which Buffett replied, _"No. You've got it wrong, Mike. Everything you didn't circle just became your Avoid-At-All-Cost list. No matter what, these things get no attention from you until you've succeeded with your top 5."_
