source: Me
tags: 
relevant: 
publish: No

# Epic - deck scratch work

This is the scratch work that went into creating the first Epic sales deck. There is not much worth reviewing/saving here, only for archival.

---

First, let's do a quick overview of other decks:

[whitepaper]
0. Cover: The Anatomy of SaaS Pricing Strategy
1. Why you need a pricing strategy
2. Why our way of doing pricing strategy is the best
3. Some supporting evidence that our way is best
4. How you can (and should) do it our way (6 chapters)


1. Executive summary - present the problem (many slides)
	- Our objective (1 slide)
	- Our differentiation (1 slide)
	- Problem explained (10 slides)
2. Methodology overview - show your solution to the problem (5 slides)

1. Problem - 2 slides
2. Solution - 1 slide
3. Who it's for - 4 slides
4. Packages - 1 slide
5. Social proof - 1 slide
6. About us - 2 slides
7. Case studies - 5 slides
	- Context
	- Approach
	- Results
8. Contact us - 1 slide



For us:
0. Cover slide
	- Epic Labs
	- Scale your business with an Acquitention Analysis ~~(Customer Accounting?) << felt too generic compared to Acquitention~~
1. Problem
	- Acquiring a new customer is 5 to 25 times more expensive than retaining an existing one
        - https://hbr.org/2014/10/the-value-of-keeping-the-right-customers
        - Increasing customer retention rates by 5% increases profits 25% to 95%
            - https://media.bain.com/Images/BB_Prescription_cutting_costs.pdf
        - Understanding which customers are most likely to churn is key
            - But it's just the start. You can also identify which existing customers are likely to become loyal, which are gone and don't deserve many resources, and which are new and how to cross/up-sell to them.
	- Acquiring the right new customers can improve LTV
        - Many firms today waste half their marketing expenses on disloyal customers who will never stick around long enough to pay back the acquisition investment
        - Shift marketing resources towards programs that attract the richest mix of loyal customers
	- ~~Individual customer behavior drives corporate performance but it's rarely optimized~~
		- Retention and Customer Success is not optimized
            - Unoptimized retention 
		- Marketing to the right customers in the right way is not optimized
2. Solution
	- Acquitention
	- 2 Reasons: Based on [[108.30.10.20.30 Data Analysis - Structural analysis deliverables]]
        - **Where do I have opportunities to scale growth?**
            - Answered by the questions:
                - Are customer counts and revenue growing? In which segments?
                -  How is customer retention (or repeat rates) by segment?
			    - What is the customer distribution?
			    - How much headroom is left to scale growth? (saturation curves)
        - **Where should my resources be dedicated?**
            - Answered by the questions:
                - What is resource allocation for marketing, service, sales, for customer acquisition and retention?
                - What are the best and worst customer segments based on customer LTV?
3. Who it's for
	- 2x2 matrix = Has individually trackable customers (Customer ID) + Cares about retention (repeat business)

4. Packages
	- Acquitention Express Analysis - Most accurate diagnostic of customer value and unit economics
        - When to use - For an initial diagnostic of customer value and its dynamics, customer acquisition cost, marketing ROI, and to gain deeper insight into value improvement opportunities
	- Acquitention Deep Dive - Holistic CLV-based evaluation, analysis of growth prospects, and customer + financial forecast for a company
        - When to use - For an accurate forward-looking view of the company, including unit economics, future customer-base size, revenue forecasts, etc.
5. About us
6. ~~Case studies~~
7. Contact us

---

### Take 2

- The Problem
    - Most companies don’t use their own data to optimize acquisition and retention
        - Unoptimized acquisition and retention is leaving money on the table
    - Most companies are “Average”!
- The Opportunity
    - Where do I have opportunities to scale growth?
	- Where should my resources be dedicated?
- Who it's for
    - PE and VC firms can de-risk investments and drive returns
	- Corporations can scale and reach their full potential
- Packages
    - Flexible Acquitention options depending on your specific needs
- About Us


### The Problem
Inability to interpret your in-house data means worse customer experiences across the board

90% of global executives who use data analytics report that they improved their ability to deliver a great customer experience.
https://www.forbes.com/sites/blakemorgan/2019/09/24/50-stats-that-prove-the-value-of-customer-experience/#789474cb4ef2

89% of companies will compete primarily on the basis of Customer Experience in the near future.
https://medium.com/inside-the-salesforce-ecosystem/the-importance-of-data-for-superior-customer-experience-and-business-success-e3c54e43ebcf

Most companies have no idea what is working for their customers and what is not
https://medium.com/inside-the-salesforce-ecosystem/the-importance-of-data-for-superior-customer-experience-and-business-success-e3c54e43ebcf


Individual customer behavior drives corporate performance but it's rarely optimized
(original "problem" paraphrased from Theta)
Customer interaction is the basis of all profits and it is rarely optimized
Customer experience is the basis of all profits and it is rarely optimized
Customer interaction patterns are the first principles of all corporate profits, and they are rarely examined or optimized
Customer first principles are often overlooked, leaving profit on the table

The world has changed. Your company has to change too
Your customer buying patterns have changed dramatically in the last several months. Do you know what it means for your business?
- Customer buying patterns have changed significantly in the last several months. 
- You need to understand which segments of customers are still profitable and those who are not, which marketing channels are still working, and how LTV has been impacted.

Is your business at risk from COVID?
- De-risking requires a deep understanding of how things inter-relate and work together
- You need to understand 


## Don't overthink it

What's the problem?

- **Epic Labs**
    - Introducing Acquitention, Growth and Retention by the numbers
- **Uncertainty in a time of change**
    - https://www.triumgroup.com/8-no-regrets-moves-every-company-should-consider-right-now/
    - The world has changed dramatically and every business has been impacted.
    - Customer purchase and communication patterns have changed.
    - Do you know who your best and worst customer segments are now? 
    - Do you know how your unit economics have changed? 
    - Do you know where your risk mitigation and economic opportunities currently are?
    - Most companies don't know, but all the answers are hidden in your own data.
- **Don't be "Average"**
	- In a time of uncertainty, the "average" is your nemesis. Averages hide the important patterns of your most important customer segments.
		- Nicholas Nasim Taleb says "Never cross a river that is 4-feet deep on average"
	- (need a good average and flat example)
		- You might have a segment with a high LTV that is hidden because they're grouped inside of an "overall" segment. You might have a segment that deserves fewer resources because their unit economics are under water.
        - Perhaps say "look into the appendix for an example of how the 'average' can be a dangerous way for your company to look at numbers, and leaves lots of opportunity on the table"
- **Don't be "Flat"**
    - "Flat" data is when lots of important information is summed into one number to give an "at-a-glance" summary. 
    - This trade-off of ease hides important information about growth and retention.
    - Cohorts are extremely informative because they show performance over time. The cohort can be grouped into a summary row to show overall performance and you get the best of both worlds.
- **How do I scale now?  Where can I grow now?**
	- Acquitention is designed to help you optimize marketing and retention. We segment, cohort, and project growth and revenue to identify where your opportunities and risk factors are.
- **Increase customer retention 5% and increase profit by 25% to 95%**
    - (show a graph)
    - The right treatment at the right time for each customer
- **Market to your best future customers**
    - Acquire more customers who are more likely to have positive unit economics and higher LTV
    - Allocate more resources toward the most effective sales and marketing channels
	- Sell and Onboard customers in a way proven to increase LTV
- **Save customers before they churn**
    - Only 1 in 20 customers speak up before they churn.
    - Predict which customers need immediate attention so they don't churn
- **Convince marginal customers to become great customers**
    - Promotions and discounts should not be sent to your best customers, they're already great! They should be sent to the set of marginal customers who just need to make a couple more purchases to get hooked on your product and move into the Great Customers segment.
- **Don't waste precious resources on the worst customers**
    - Some customers are gone and are not coming back. Don't waste resources on them.
    - Some customers are low margin and should be served in a cost-efficient manner
- **Allocate resources to high growth segments, optimize margin for low growth segments**
    - Understand how much headroom is left to scale your growth for every segment. (saturation curves)
    - Build funnels and customer success programs for segments with lots of room for growth, and optimize margin for cash cows with low growth potential.






We will help you increase retention and attract more qualified leads, and are willing to stake our success fee on it.

The secret to improving retention is not exclusively better customer support or customer success programs. You must have the data to ensure effective resource allocation to your programs.
