source: Me
tags: 
relevant: 
- [[109.20 Productivity - Schedule your day]]
- [[109.22 Productivity - Schedule the whole week in advance]]
- [[116.002 Life Lessons - I set the pace]]
- [[116.007 Life Lessons - A man who procrastinates in his choosing]]
- [[116.015 Life Lessons - Don't wait for anybody. Just do your thing. They will understand.]]
- [[116.051 Life Lessons - It's time to stop fucking around]]

# Today is all I have

Yesterday is gone. Tomorrow is uncertain. Today is all you have for sure. 

_Those who strive and hope and live only in the future, always looking ahead and impatiently anticipating what is coming, as something which will make them happy when they get it, are, in spite of their very clever airs, exactly like those donkeys one sees in Italy, who's pace may be hurried by fixing a stick on their heads with a wisp of hay at the end of it; this is always just in front of them, and they keep on trying to get it. Such people are in a constant state of illusion as to their whole existence; they go on living ad interim, until at last they die._
_Instead, therefore, of always thinking about our plans and anxiously looking to the future, or of giving ourselves up to regret for the past, we should never forget that the present is the only reality, the only certainty; that the future almost always turns out contrary to our expectations; that the past, too, was very different from what we suppose to have been. But the past and the future are, on the whole, of less consequence than we think. Distance, which makes objects look small to the outward eye, makes them look big to the eye of thought. The present alone is true and actual; it is the only time which possesses full reality, and our existence lies in it exclusively._
Schopenhauer, Our Realation to Ourselves,1851

_Every mans life lies within the present; for the past is spent and the future is uncertain._
Marcus Aurelius

