source: Me
tags: 
relevant: 
publish: No

# Strata Analysis is a geology dig for your company

- Who
    - You
    - Your company
- What, Why
    - [[108.20.40.05 Data Analysis - Questions to ask for every analysis]]
- When
- Where
- How

[[111.10.03.10 Epic - Past and future quotes]]
[[111.10.03.20 Epic - Geology definitions and resources]]
[[111.10.03.30 Epic - How strata does not work in place of cohort]]

The study of geology is an odd metaphor for improving your business. But hang with me and I'll tell you why you should care.

## Grow your company by thinking like a geologist
## Your key to customer growth is thinking in layers

_“You have to know the past to understand the present.”_
- Carl Sagan
- https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/10538.Carl_Sagan

Today you have a chance to create the next stratum of your success. But to do so, you must build on the foundation which has already been laid down. You need to think like a geologist.

Thinking like a geologist can help you confidently create the future. You see the results of this kind of thinking every day in the news - sustainability, climate change, the environment, are all topics informed and driven by geologists. How is it that somebody who studies the most ancient aspects of our world can be qualified to predict the future?

Answer: Thinking in layers.

Geologists study the strata of rock layers and how they change over time. Your business is the same. Your company is like the strata of sediment in the Earth - each layer of customers tells a story of where you came from and represents the foundation of the next chapter of the story. 

The farther back you go, the more you learn. So let's dig up an old stratum of customers in your company and have a look at what it means.

But first, let me explain the metaphor:

In geology, a "stratum" is a layer of rock or soil that was formed at the earth's surface over a period of time.
[--------graphic goes here--------]

Future "stratum" are laid down on top of the first layer, and now we have "strata" (plural for stratum). What used to be on top is now buried under the newer layers.
            [----graphic goes here----]
      [-----graphic goes here-------]
[--------graphic goes here--------]

This history of your company's customers can look exactly the same when you group them by periods of time. E.g., a "stratum" is customers who _first_ transacted with your company in a period of time.

- What we call a "strata" is often called a "cohort" by others
- We choose the word "strata" because we like the metaphorical meaning, the linguistic power, and the freedom of exploration. It allows us to break out of traditional "cohort" thinking and create something similar but new.
- The structure of a strata
	- The y-axis represents the layers of customers formed over time, similar to layers of sediment in the earth. Each layer is a "stratum" (singular) and represents all the customers who _first_ transacted with your company during that period of time. As a group all together they are called "strata" (plural)
	- The x-axis represents 
	- First number on the left is the number of customers in that layer of stratum

## This metaphor went as far as it could have... 
[[111.10.03.30 Epic - How strata does not work in place of cohort]]
- I am moving on!
