source: Me
tags: 
relevant: 

# What is Customer Accounting?

## Definition
**Customer Accounting** is the combination of customer analysis and accounting analysis.
- [[108.20 Data Analysis - Customer analysis]] = All revenue and profits a company generates come from customers. Customer analysis is designed to answer questions about customers and their environment so they can become more profitable.
- [[108.60 Data Analysis - Accounting analysis]] = Explores how financial statement data and non-financial data can be linked to financial performance.
    - Should especially have a focus on the accounting for individual customers or customer segments

Called **Growth Accounting** by Jonathan Hsu at Tribe Capital (formerly of Social Capital)
- https://so-epic.slack.com/archives/CNWMBJZHP/p1592601586001300
- https://tribecap.co/a-quantitative-approach-to-product-market-fit/


## What is the goal of Customer Accounting?
If accounting is the ability to report and improve the _financial health_ of a company over time, then customer accounting is the ability to report and improve _customer health_ over time. And since we can link non-financial metrics to financial outcomes, we prove that improving customer health also improves financial outcomes.

## Linking non-financial metrics to financial performance
[[20200630 Wharton Accounting Analytics]] << Week 4 is the key
- This is a really interesting concept, one that could be expanded upon, that I haven't seen anybody else talking about except this one Wharton Professor - and even then, I could not find any of his published papers that speak specifically to this topic.

---

So, what is Customer Accounting?

Customer Accounting is the measurement and improvement of _customer health_ over time. Customer health is linked to financial outcomes.
- this is not sufficient by itself, because "customer health" needs to be linked to "financial health"
- Perhaps something more like: 
	- Customer health as it improves the business' financial health
	- Linking customer health to financial outcomes.

