source: Me
tags: 
relevant: 
publish: No

# What to learn from COVID

Outline:
1. Introduction - how we can take away from business lessons from the pandemic
2. May want to mention how there is a data science corollary. This type of thinking is done all the time in epidemiology and bio-sciences, and some smart professors at Wharton started applying the same statistical algorithms to growth and retention of companies, and now we're doing the same for anybody who can afford to pay.

Resources:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proportional_hazards_model

I'm going to try and make an editing pass at Pablo's content. I think it's better in Google Docs or Dropbox Paper than here in markdown, because he will be able to see my edits/additions much easier that way.

But, for my own sake, I'm going to work with the original here first so I can play around with ideas.

---

Humans have experienced many pandemics through time. Our history is marked by disasters with similar patterns. With COVID-19 we've experienced the highest impact in the shortest period of time due to our open economies and travel, combined with our ability to track and measure which makes this disaster unique.

In the business world this phenomenon is interesting as an example of exponential growth and virality. We often use the term "viral marketing" or "going viral", but rarely take the time to think about what the term means.

In the case of COVID-19 there are a few elements that make it extremely interesting from a growth perspective - please allow us the theoretical exercise as we are highly sympathetic to those affected by this terrible disease. 

Our ability today to gather data and track users, makes out of this terrible episode a good opportunity to learn. Let us share some of the elements we have identified as interesting and that should be applied to any good growth strategy: 

## Patient zero
https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/5878645/patient-zero-meaning-disease-outbreak-viral-bacteria/

In the first months of the pandemic, countries scrambled to find their "patient zero" in order to understand where the virus started and how it spread so fast.
Once patient zero is identified, researchers begin to understand how the disease spreads, which leads to containment strategies, and growth predictions (the famous r-naught).

 The concept of finding patient zero, and the subsequent understanding of viral growth is the same across both a disease and a business. In fact, there is an entire branch of statistics devoted to measuring it.

In the life sciences industry there is a branch of statistics called "survival analysis" which predicts the amount of time until an event occurs. In the case of COVID it can be used to predict the growth curve of the virus by estimating how many people in a population will get it. In essence they use the spread of a disease, outward from "patient zero" into the community to predict how it will further spread and how other communities will likely be impacted.

You've probably gotten very used to seeing graphs like this one for COVID growth and prediction.

[covid growth graph]

In the business world, we use these _exact same algorithms_ to predict acquisition and retention of a company's customers. Starting with the first customer we calculate how fast a company is growing and predict further growth based on the size of the market and virality of the marketing efforts. Then we calculate the retention probability of every customer. The resulting analysis and graph looks strikingly similar to the one above.

[saturation curve graph]

If your company is like most, there are parts which are growing faster than others, and parts that retain customers for longer. You have multiple patient zeros, and that is where segmentation becomes important. 


> but only those that had the right attributes were finally able to spread the virus. The fact that someone was exposed to the virus was not enough but a combination of gender, age, metabolism, social activity, etc...made that patient zero the trigger that actually generated the network effect. 

> How do we identify those attributes for those "patient zeroes" is almost as important as the virus itself. Today we can use data to identify which are the common elements some of your patient zero have to be able to replicate them and place int he right locations to generate the desired growth. 

## Segmentation

"This is a virus for old people"...many of us have heard that and actually data proves that 67% of deaths related to COVID-19 were over 75 years old. This may be obvious as any dangerous virus at that age may be mortal but again we are not here to understand the medical part of this pandemic but the story around the data.

It is very interesting how almost immediately it is generated an spontaneous segmentation of age (older patients), gender (males have a higher % of deaths and infections), obesity (higher chances of infection and mortality) and health (any former diseases). 

How different this is from a proper business segmentation? It is not. And it shows how critical a proper segmentation it is to understand how our message can be transmitted along markets. For example, we have seen youngsters partying and feeling totally immune to the disease. Again we are not debating the medical implications but exposing how a certain segment of users may ignore totally your company because they feel immune to it. 

Understanding solidly your business segmentation and higher propensities to "infection" is critical to develop the right strategy, understand your business potential and find the right channels to grow. 

## Virality

How contagious is your message? We have fatally learned the scary infectious potential COVID-19 has, and that has been one of the key elements to alert of its consequences. 

When we think from a business perspective, we mostly fall in the trap to believe that our business proposition is a killer. Based on a few power points slides and simple tests that tells us our product/service will fly. And that rarely happens. 

Our proposition will only show its true ability to grow in the real market. We definitively should pre-test to fine tune but we need to get real data from real users under market conditions. Measuring this properly and observing performance with an agnostic mind will help us identify what generates the virality and add more infection charge. 

What makes our proposition interesting, to whow it resonates, which channel propagates better the message and how long will it last. You need to know all this to make sure you have a business in your hands.

In this sense data can tell you what triggers virality and help your message use that to generate recall. 

## **Distribution channels**

We just mentioned the importance to understand which channel propagates the message better. It´s also critical to understand how resistant your message is in each channel. There are certain channels which will give you the impression that are optimal to generate conversation but sometimes these presence quickly evaporates. 

Other times you get "right place, right time, right info" and that is when the magic happens. Again measuring how each channel contributes to the overall business performance will help you understand which channels generate short term impact, which build up for the future and which are totally neutral or evaporate so quickly that the result is irrelevant. 

Having the right distribution strategy will help you maximize each channel in the right way and use its potential. 

## Masks

Users and consumers they want to be protected from external parties. They want their privacy and make sure no one access their information. 

When people use tools that prevent the chain of transmission, that prevents companies from expanding their message. This could be technology or simply the nature of the user. We have seen in this pandemic how some patients were super transmitters because of their social activity, while others as well infected kept their isolation very seriously practically blocking the virus from expanding. 

....

...

...

## Social distancing

If we have learned something from this terrible disaster, it is the strong correlation between socialization and propagation. This should surprise to no one, however it is important to observe the actual implications and how we can use them in benefit of our businesses.

This social world we live in is the clear reason why this virus has hit strongest ever. Our global economy, the uncountable number of social events and activities has helped the propagation in a scale never seen before. 

...

...

...