title: Who to hire
desc: This could just as easily be titled - Who to be friends with, Who to hang out with, Who to admire, ...
image: 
date: 2013-08-08
type: essay

<h1>Who to hire</h1>
<p>This could just as easily be titled:</p>
<p>Who to be friends with<br/> Who to hang out with<br/> Who to admire</p>
<p>My former boss, and current friend, the great Eddie Hartman, has only one<br/> major criteria when it comes to hiring people.</p>
<p>And I will get to that in a minute, but first I’ll tell you what other<br/> people say and do about hiring.</p>
<p>They say it’s the hardest thing they do. They say they only get it right<br/> 50% of the time. They say that A-players hire other A-players, and<br/> B-players hire C-players. They outsource it to professionals. They say that<br/> you want “smart people who get things done”. They say to hire an unproven<br/> A-player over a proven B-player. They write entire books about hiring<br/> sequences and get famous over interview questions. They craft crazy PR<br/> campaigns to attract talented people.</p>
<p>They all know how important it is.</p>
<p>Your mom used to work in the recruiting industry, and she would be the<br/> first one to agree. It’s all about who you hire.</p>
<p>And I would take it a step further to say that it’s not just about who you<br/> hire - it is also about who your friends are, who your neighbors are, who<br/> you hang with, who your kids hang with, who runs your town, who runs your<br/> country, and so on.</p>
<p>People run this world - and if you want to be successful (and, I would<br/> argue, happy) you need to hire, hang with, and live around the right kind<br/> of people.</p>
<p>That’s why I chose Silicon Valley, and I am continually rewarded for this<br/> choice. The people here are incredibly smart, driven, get things done, with<br/> vision. That is why they are here: they were either brought here by<br/> incredible companies, or were attracted for the same reasons I was.</p>
<p>So, what was/is Eddie’s criteria for hiring?</p>
<p>Very simple:</p>
<p>Hire people who’s work you would be proud to take credit for.</p>
<p>This means you are getting A-players, because they do great work. It means<br/> you are hiring people who get things done, because they have already proven<br/> they can do it.</p>
<p>Note what it omits: don’t worry about gender, color, religion, beauty,<br/> language, location, etc.</p>
<p>Apply this same principle to people you want to hang out with in the<br/> following way:</p>
<p>Hang out with people who’s passion and actions will make you proud to say<br/> you knew before they were famous.</p>
<p>- they are passionate about their occupation or hobby, to the point of<br/> wanting to be better than anybody else, or change the world in a meaningful<br/> way<br/> - they could do something great, maybe given their talent, unique<br/> perspective, or work ethic, it is even likely<br/> - they are good people, do’ers, not talkers</p>

