source: Me
tags: 
relevant: 
- [[108.20.40 Data Analysis - Customer analysis for different business models]]

# Consumer / Retail / Ecommerce
This is an overview of the business model specific ways to look at consumer/retail/ecommerce analysis, including online, physical stores, and omni analysis. For the big list of questions which are relevant to _any_ business see [[108.20.40.05 Data Analysis - Questions to ask for every analysis]]

## Consumer / Retail
- Store quality
    - Are new stores getting better or worse than old stores?
    - How does store quality differ between core and non-core markets?
    - How many members are stores expected to add?
    - Are new stores taking longer to ramp up and acquire members than old stores?
    - Do new stores have the same member potential (saturation) as old stores with similar characteristics?
    - Are members at new stores churning more quickly than members at old stores?

- Customer purchasing behavior
	- How does customer purchasing behavior vary by channel?
	- How does purchasing behavior vary by online, mobile, call center?
	- How many people buy from only one channel?
	- Of people who buy from multiple channels how does their spend split between channels and how has that changed over time?
	- What non-subscription categories have subscription-like behavior? E.g. multiple purchases over time

- Product mix / Demand driven inventory
	- How does the sku level product mix change by category over time?
	- Identify what customers purchase based on segmentation and location
    - Hold inventory at appropriate locations
	- Predict product profitability and effect of substitutions
	- Category management: statistically test new product categories
	- Cross-sell, upsell, and bundle based on customer segmentation

- Revenue forecasting
    - Monthly and quarterly forecasts used for budgeting and refinancing
	- Demand projection: customer growth and product shipments for seasonality and marketing spend
	- Finance: refine annual budget and revenue forecast
	- How reasonable are management revenue projections for new and existing customers?


## Consumer subscription

- Free to premium conversion
    - What customers are subscribing to what length of plan?
    - Are customers switching from monthly to longer plans or vice versa?


## The special case of ecommerce with attachable subscriptions
[[108.20.40.30.10 Data Analysis - Customer analysis for ecommerce with attachable subscriptions]]