source: Me
tags: 
relevant: 
- [[108.20.40 Data Analysis - Customer analysis for different business models]]

# B2B
This is an overview of the business model specific ways to look at B2B analysis, especially B2B software subscriptions. For the big list of questions which are relevant to _any_ business see [[108.20.40.05 Data Analysis - Questions to ask for every analysis]]

## Questions/Opportunities

- Customer growth
	- A story of expansion in customer base

- Churn
    - Has customer renewal improved or declined over time?
	- What are the big predictors of churn?
    - What are renewal rates by segment?
    - Can customer churn be anticipated and mitigated?
    - Can we identify customers who are likely to renew or churn?
	- Land-and-expand is a huge part of business subscription businesses. You buy a subscription and then expand that over time. The LTV grows for a customer over time. (Lucky8 Daily Q2 2017, 20170424)
    - What is the portfolio renewal rate
    - For customers that are up for renewal, how to determine what is at-risk?
    - How do we reactivate the higest quality customers efficiently?
    - Understand what the churn is by product

- Pricing
	- What are the correct price point break segments?
	- What are the pricing and discounting trends by segment? What role has bundling played?
    - How does pricing vary throughout the company by customer, product, geography?
    - Can prices be increased?
    - What are the optimal discount strategies?
    - What are the optimal pricing and discount offers?

- Up-sell/cross-sell
	- What is the true up-sell/cross-sell opportunity across segments?
	- How does the identified up-sell/cross-sell compare to management methods?
    - What are the big predictors of upsell?
    - To what extent is there cross-selling in the customer base and where is that coming from?
    - What are the cross-sell rates based on customer LTV for key products?
    - Is there cannibalization impact between license and cloud?

- Sales optimization
    - What are the metrics for best and worst sales reps?
    - What is the optimal approach to load balance inbound, outbound, new, and upsell sales opportunities?

- Product portfolio
    - What new products or services can be offered or cross-sold?
    - Which customers are transitioning to Saas/Cloud from on-prem licenses?
        - What are the profiles of these customers?
        - What do these customers buy?

- R&D spend rationalization
    - What is R&D spend allocation based on best and worst customer LTV

- Snowball
	- What is the customer journey? Marketing/sales - acquisition channel - product, pricing - renewal/churn (snowball)
    - How do customers develop over time?
    - How do snowballs compare to management numbers?


### Growth metrics
A few growth metrics that are specific for B2B analysis

- ARR
- Exit ARR = yearly ARR
- Net retention - especially for each segment of customer
- ARPU
- ARPS = avg rev per subscriber, different than ARPU b/c this one is only subscriptions



