source: Me
tags: 
relevant: 
- [[108.30.10.20 Data Analysis - Structural analysis outputs]]

# Segments and metrics for outputs

Segments and metrics are the components that make up the outputs of our data analysis. 

## Segments: Overall and by major segment (product, geo, demo, etc)

Critical segments to figure out how to consistently separate: 
- How does the customer behave in the funnel/business process?
- What pattern do they follow, according to the metrics we have identified as critical to the success of the business from our [[108.20.50.10 Data Analysis - Acquitention Heuristic]] and discussions with the company?

- **Easy segments** are those with columns in the data. 
	- Product, geography, etc - but these will rarely be interesting or important other than as support knowledge.
- **Pareto segments**
	- Show the 80/20, and the 96/4, and the 99/1. How do these segments differ from each other in terms of LTV, CAC, funnel, activity patterns, etc?
- **RFM segments**
- [[108.30.10.20.20.10 Data Analysis - Segments - RFM]] 
	- And RFM _by segment_ - i.e. do an RFM segmentation within other segments which seem important so that we can identify the champions and losers there


## Metrics: Revenue and engagement (customer count, LTV, interactions, etc)
Metrics can be different for different kinds of companies. E.g. A non-subscription consumer company will care about AOV because basket size is important, but this won't change much for a subscription SaaS company so they will not care about it. 

## Example 
To get the total number of outputs, take the number of segments and multiply by number of metrics. E.g.
- Overall segment
- Product segments (5 products)
- Geo segments (10 geos)

(times)

- Gross retention
- Quick Ratio
- Net churn
- Revenue metric
- Customer count metric
- LTV metric
- AOV metric

= total of `16 segments * 7 metrics = 112 outputs`, each with numeric grid and graph

## Side note re. RFM segmentation
It would be a very fun and good experiment to include an RFM segmentation into the above outputs. It would add ~10 new segments so the number of outputs would be `26 segments * 7 metrics = 182 outputs`.