source: Me
tags: 
relevant: 
publish: No

# Questions to ask for every analysis

These are questions that are valid to ask for any/every data analysis no matter the business model of the client. 

There are repeat questions inside of each category because the same question can be asked in multiple different ways depending on the specific circumstance.

# High level questions
These are the most common questions for each category, with many more ways to phrase these questions below.

## GROWTH
- **Acquisition patterns/trends**
    - Are customer counts and revenue growing for each segment?
    - How is customer retention (or repeat rates) by segment?
    - What is the customer distribution?
- **LTV**
    - What are the best and worst customer segments based on customer LTV?
	- How valuable is the installed customer base (customer equity) 
- **Customer quality**
    - Is customer quality improving or declining by cohort and by age over time?
- **Market opportunity**
	- What is the potential addressable market? Is there still room to grow?

## MARKETING
- **Resource allocation**
    - What is resource allocation for marketing, service, sales, for customer acquisition and retention?
	- Where should resources be focused to achieve growth?
- **Channels**
    - Are certain marketing channels more effective than others?
- **ROI**
    - What is the LTV/CAC and is it getting better or worse over time?
    - Which channels are projected to deliver the highest and lowest ROI?


---

# Detailed questions

## GROWTH
- **Cohort patterns/trends**
    - Identify and project growth by customer type, geography, product, other segments
    - What are the key cohort trends across major segments?
	- New vs. Repeat
        - How does new vs repeat growth compare across geographies and channels?
        - How much growth is expected from new customers vs. maintenance ARR?
        - What is the cohort view on growth between existing and new customers?
	    - How do older customer cohorts look different than newer cohorts?
	    - How is company growth projected between new and existing customers?
	    - How do customers acquired in the past compare to more recently acquired customers along the primary attributes?
	    - Is the company reliant on new adds vs existing customers to achieve its projections?
    - Who are the largest customers?
    - Do customers acquired indirectly act differently than customers acquired directly?
    - How do product quality and mix contribute to company growth? (products are the segments)
    - Are customer counts, unique visitors, and transactions growing for each segment?
	- Can we segment the customer base on average order or buying frequency?
	- What is the geo-attribution? Heat map of customers by post code
    - Which first product purchase is projected to drive future growth?
    - What are customer segment conversion trends?
	- What is the subscription vs non-subscription vs omni-channel growth?
    - What is the gender specific growth?
    - What is the growth by product?
    - What is the growth by geography?
    - How do contract vs. non-contract customers behave in terms of LTV, customer quality, repeats?

- **Value**
    - What are the best and worst customer segments based on customer LTV?
	- How valuable is the installed customer base (customer equity) 
	- Which customer segment is most valuable?
    - Determine and project customer LTVs by customer type, geography, product, other segments
    - Which customer segment generates the most bookings and profitability?
    - What is the LTV of on-prem vs SaaS customers?
    - How does LTV compare to ARPC for these customers?
	- Segment customers based on LTV by purchase history, geography, etc
    - Did a previous acquisition increase product prices to drive growth?
    - Understand how much customers are worth
    - Identify best customers and worst customers
    - Project what customers are worth based on their purchase patterns
	- LTV drivers: optimize drivers such as AOV, ARPU, promotions and discounts
    - Who are the highest and lowest LTV customers?
    - Who has the high vs. low propensity to renew a subscription?
    - Who has the high vs. low propensity to attach a subscription to another purchase?
    - What is the best segmentation that separates high vs. low LTV customers?

- **Customer quality**
    - Is customer quality improving or declining by cohort and by age over time?
    - Are older customer cohorts more valuable than newer customer cohorts by age (LTV)?
    - How has customer retention (or repeat rates) changed by cohort over time?
    - Is customer purchasing behavior improving over time?
	- How is repeat vs new purchasing behavior changing over time?
    - What are the key drivers of customer quality (customer LTV)?
    - Is customer quality improving or declining by cohort over time?

- **Market opportunity**
    - Where is there market opportunity? (geography, customer segment, etc?)
    - How much headroom is there for growth through acquisitions?
    - Identify addressable market both for existing and new markets
    - Determine how "whitespace" markets are likely to develop over time
	- What is the potential addressable market? Is there still room to grow?
    - What is the potential addressable market for the company?
    - Is there still room to grow or is the market saturated?


## MARKETING

- **Channels**
	- How effective are marketing and reseller channels?
    - Are certain marketing channels more effective than others?
    - Are customers acquired from some channels more valuable than others?
    - Are there any growth and saturation trends by marketing channel?
	- Email targeting based on preferences and behaviors
	- What are the revenue projections by channel?
    - Optimize marketing channels and initiatives
    - What is the growth available in individual marketing channels?
    - Which marketing channels have the best performance?

- **Resource allocation**
    - What is resource allocation for marketing, service, sales, for customer acquisition and retention?
	- Where should resources be focused to achieve growth?
    - How does the growth trajectory change based on marketing spend?
    - Is there a point of diminishing returns in marketing spend?
    - Determine how much to spend to acquire customers
	- What is the correlation (R-squared) between marketing spend and order demand?
	- Are marketing dollars better spent on customer acquisition or retention?

- **ROI**
    - How does each segment perform on marketing and conversion ROI?
    - Which channels are projected to deliver the highest and lowest ROI?
    - How do marketing ROIs and revenue forecasts change based on marketing spend?
	- Marketing ROI: optimize by channel and segment
    - What is the LTV-to-CAC ROI
    - Which first product purchase generates the best ROI?
    - What is the LTV/CAC and is it getting better or worse over time?
    - What is the expected CAC/LTV by subscription plan?
    - What are the first-purchase based contribution margins and CPA?

- **Other**
    - Target customers based on what they have purchased and are likely to purchase
    - Optimize discounting and markdown cycles and products


## Business model specific questions
For more specific, drill-down questions to ask of specific business models, see:
- [[108.20.40.20 Data Analysis - Customer analysis for b2b]]
- [[108.20.40.30 Data Analysis - Customer analysis for consumer]]


- [[20200709 PE questions by industry (clustered)]]