source: Me
tags:
relevant:
- [[106.007 About me - Life philosophy]]
- [[107.011 Philosophy - Stoicism - You cannot hurt me]]
- [[107.016 Philosophy - Stoicism - Today is mine]]
- [[107.018 Philosophy - Stoicism - Time to get to work]]
- [[107.019 Philosophy - Jocko - Get your ass out of bed]]
- [[109.10 Productivity - Your environment and systems makes success easier]]
- [[109.42 Productivity - Wake up early]]
- [[116.002 Life Lessons - I set the pace]]
- [[116.007 Life Lessons - A man who procrastinates in his choosing]]
- [[116.015 Life Lessons - Don't wait for anybody. Just do your thing. They will understand.]]
- [[116.021 Life Lessons - If you're not growing you're dying]]
- [[116.024 Life Lessons - Passion and drive is the only thing that sets you apart from other entrepreneurs]]
- [[116.032 Life Lessons - What do you want out of this life]]
- [[116.041 Life Lessons - When it counts is BEFORE all hell breaks loose]]
- [[116.049 Life Lessons - You get what you give]]
- [[116.055 Life Lessons - Quit, don't quit. Noodles, no noodles]]

# Training for endurance requires mental toughness

This is one of those things that is easy to say but difficult to understand. 

When you're running and the subconscious says it's time to walk, do you walk? If you keep running, at what point are you just hurting yourself? What if you're getting dehydrated, taking too much time, getting lost, etc etc? If you're tired from yesterday's workout and your subconscious says to stay home today, do you stay home? If you go out anyway are you just hurting yourself?

If it is ENDURANCE that you seek, you don't stop. You _always_ go, you never think about how much it will hurt, because ENDURANCE and HEALTH are two different things.

And I'm not only talking about running. Running is just a metaphor for life.