source: Me
tags: #self-promotion 
relevant:

# Bio

## Short bio

Hello, I am co-founder of Epic Labs - https://epic.so

I was an early technical architect at 2 unicorns, and founder of multiple startups with exits, including a multi-million user application. As an advisor, I have analyzed $70B of transaction value for SaaS, platforms, e-commerce, and finance. I specialize in data, segmentation, cohort analysis, and lifetime value optimization for companies with repeat customers.



## Long bio

Travis Giggy is a serial entrepreneur in Silicon Valley with more than 20 years leading product and technology teams. He is a technology expert, angel investor, advisor, and shareholder in many tech startups. His areas of expertise include databases, programming, customer development, product management, big data analysis, and financial engineering.

As a technologist, Travis was the first programmer architect at LegalZoom.com, which he helped grow from $1M to $250M revenue, and the first programmer architect at Center Partners, a call center company which grew from 10 to 2,000 employees in 3-years and was acquired by WPP.

As an entrepreneur, Travis founded the world's largest golf software company, Swing by Swing, with 3+ million active users, and sold it in 2014. He has helped launch and raise money for startups in Blockchain, AI, Platform, and Data Analysis.

As a consultant, Travis has analyzed $70B of transaction value for SaaS, platforms, e-commerce, and finance. He specializes in segmentation, cohort analysis, and lifetime value optimization for companies with repeat customers.

Only a handful of non-college graduates have ever been admitted to the Stanford Executive Program. Travis was invited to attend based on the strength of his entrepreneurial achievements.

**Corporate Experience**

https://www.linkedin.com/in/travisgiggy/

**Technology Expertise**

- Databases: SQL, noSQL, columnar, big data
- Programming: Python, Javascript, C#, VB, SQL

**Academic Background**

- Alumni, Stanford Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, USA, 2015

