source: Me
tags: 
relevant: 
- [[108.30.10 Data Analysis - Structural analysis]]

# Structural analysis outputs

The level set output is usually a google spreadsheet with multiple tabs. Each tab represents a metric like Customer Counts, Revenue, AOV, ARPU, etc and contains many cohort triangles, each of which represent a segment like Overall, By product, By Region, Demographics, etc.

See [[108.10.50 Data Analysis - Step 5 outputs and presentations]] for the way to think about outputting/presenting the level set data. It is useless in a database, it must be viewable, understandable, in front of a human, and it needs to be reliable.

# Outputs
## Deliverables
[[108.30.10.20.30 Data Analysis - Structural analysis deliverables]]

## Segments and metrics
- Segmentation is important because averages are misleading. **[link to the averages are misleading page when it exists]**
- Metrics are important because you view information through many different and important lenses.
- [[108.30.10.20.20 Data Analysis - Segments and metrics for outputs]]

## Growth Accounting Metrics
1. Gross Retention
2. Quick Ratio
3. Net churn

## Cohort Analysis Metrics
1. Customer counts
2. Revenue
3. Customer quality (LTV)
4. Other metrics as appropriate for the business like AOV, ARPU, customer distribution

### Reading a cohort triangle
[[108.30.10.20.10 Data Analysis - How to read a cohort triangle]]


# Other stuff
### Communication/documentation is key
Cohorts (or any analysis) should not stand on its own. They should have some kind of header/communication to explain what is important about it.
- Quantify cohort metrics. Instead of just saying "cohorts are getting better", say "cohorts are getting 18% better". Quantify it on a true weighted basis, or a simple average, or by recency.
- Export cohorts with both numbers and percentages


1. [[20200706 Lucky8 notes (clustered)]]
2. Quantitative Approach to PMF: https://tribecap.co/a-quantitative-approach-to-product-market-fit/