title: secret to success
desc: Hey guys, - Some people ask me how I’m so good at writing email subject lines. Or, coding.
image: 
date: 2012-09-09
type: essay

<h1>secret to success</h1>
<p>Hey guys,</p>
<p>Some people ask me how I’m so good at writing email subject lines. Or,<br/> coding. Or, playing basketball. Or, socializing. Or, ...anything.</p>
<p>It’s not because I’m gifted, I’ll tell you that. I know some people who are<br/> actually gifted at some of those things, and they are truly amazing to<br/> watch.</p>
<p>But that’s not me.</p>
<p>I’m smart, sure. But not brilliant.</p>
<p>I just obsess about being the best I can be.</p>
<p>I don’t obsess about being the absolute best - that’s like an Olympian<br/> spending an entire lifetime preparing for one race, doing the same thing<br/> over and over forever until he/she is the best in the world. I just really<br/> really care about being the best I can be right now.</p>
<p>For example, here are the subject lines I wrote for an email that went out<br/> the other day. I wrote 30 of them, back-to-back, until coming up with the<br/> one that felt great.</p>
<p>world’s first golf improvement service<br/> introducing the world’s first golf improvement service<br/> new and improved pro looper<br/> introducing the new and improved pro looper<br/> never before available:<br/> technology finally puts instruction<br/> never before seen, revolutionary instruction<br/> never before seen: play the best golf of your life<br/> Announcing the new and improved Pro Looper<br/> New and improved: Technology puts<br/> A dedicated golf coach<br/> Your dedicated golf coach awaits<br/> Your golf coach awaits<br/> How technology has changed the world of golf instruction<br/> Your phone is the world’s most powerful golf coach<br/> Your phone is a golf coach?<br/> A golf coach in your pocket<br/> A golf coach in your pocket?<br/> Limited time sale: Announcing new and improved Pro Looper<br/> How I can help you play the best golf of your life<br/> Instantly take 10 strokes off your game<br/> Incredible new technology for golfers<br/> We did it again<br/> Oops, I did it again! (incredible new technology for golfers)<br/> oops, I did it again! Announcing the new Pro Looper<br/> Oops, I did it again! New and improved Pro Looper<br/> Oops, I did it again! (tech is so cool)<br/> Your golf coach is standing by<br/> The most powerful golf coach in the world?<br/> A golf coach with magical powers</p>
<p><br/> Some of them are horrible - but that’s the price to pay for greatness in<br/> the end.</p>
<p>This email subject line generated about $5,000 worth of Pro Looper sales on<br/> a day that not even half that much was expected.</p>
<p><br/> You’re blessed. You have the same gifts as me: Intelligence. Social<br/> capability. Tenacity. Fortitude.</p>
<p>Use it all. Obsess. Be the best. You’ll be great!</p>

