title: The rule of delegation
desc: Boys, Sometimes I like to send you lessons that I’ve learned in my time. Usually these lessons ...
image: 
date: 2012-11-30
type: essay

<h1>The rule of delegation</h1>
<div>Boys,</div>
<div></div>
<div>Sometimes I like to send you lessons that I’ve learned in my time. Usually these lessons are learned the hard way - first hand, painful, over-and-over (because I don’t exactly learn lessons the easy way). But when I finally do have the realization that something might make my life (or others’ lives) better in the future, I write it down. And I send them to you in hopes that you won’t make the mistakes I had to. (Or, at least, learn them quicker than I did)</div>
<div></div>
<div><strong>The rule of delegation:</strong></div>
<div></div>
<div>Don’t be shortsighted when it comes to delegation of tasks. It may take you a little more time (than just doing it yourself) to develop the documentation or checklist which allows somebody else to do one of your mundane tasks, but it will save you a ton of time in the future and you will be free to do something much more important. Not to mention, things will probably get done a lot quicker and more reliably if you offload them from your responsibility. This also allows you to do many many things at the same time and multiply your effectiveness. Just be sure to keep good management of these offloaded tasks.</div>
<div></div>
<div>This simple rule has allowed me to move things forward faster, more reliably, and create long lasting professional relationships. </div>
<div></div>
<div>It’s hard to let go of something that you (feel like you) do better than everybody else. But, if you have more important things to do, then you need to offload the ones that somebody else could do satisfactorily. Anyway, you will hopefully be spending your time on things that nobody else can do. (That’s what I hope for you, for a lot of reasons I won’t get into here, maybe someday I will...) </div>

