title: Everything around you, that you call life, was made up by people no smarter than you
desc: And you can change it. You can influence it. You can build your own things that other people can use.
image: 
date: 2014-08-17
type: essay

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0" height="281" id="youtube_iframe" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kYfNvmF0Bqw?feature=oembed&amp;enablejsapi=1&amp;origin=http://safe.txmblr.com&amp;wmode=opaque" width="500"></iframe>
<div class="caption"><p>Dear boys,</p>
<p>Just in case the video attached to this message is not available when you read it, here’s a partial transcript:</p>
<p><em>“Everything around you, that you call life, was made up by people no smarter than you. And you can change it. You can influence it. You can build your own things that other people can use. ... You can change it. You can mold it. That’s maybe the most important thing - is to shake off this erroneous notion that life is there and you’re just going to live it; versus embrace it, change it, improve it, make your mark upon it. ... Once you learn that, you’ll never be the same again.” - Steve Jobs, 1995</em></p>
<p>The foods you eat, the clothes you wear, the house you live in - all designed for you by another human. Do you like it? If not, you can make it better!</p>
<p>The buildings. The roads. The cars that drive on them. All invented for you by another human being (often no smarter than you).</p>
<p>The laws, the taxes, and the country you live in — none of it existed by itself. It was all invented by a person.</p>
<p>This is obvious, right? Yes - IT IS obvious, but few actually realize what that means for them. They assume that “other people” change the world, not them. You can be the “other people”, if you just realize that it’s at your fingertips, and within your capability to do anything you set your mind to. The people who create new things are just people - no different than you. People who thought something needed to happen, convinced other people that it should happen, and then made it happen.</p>
<p>You have the power to change the world. You’re more powerful than you know. There’s nothing you can’t do... if it’s a worthy goal, if you can convince other people it’s worth doing, you take the initiative, and have the fortitude to make it happen.</p> </div>

