title: Big List of Hard Knocks
desc: 1 minute of planning is worth 10 minutes of doing - Be different. Set yourself apart. And don’t care
image: 
date: 2014-09-15
type: essay

<h1>Big List of Hard Knocks</h1>
<ul><li><p><strong>1 minute of planning is worth 10 minutes of doing</strong></p></li>
<li><p><strong>Be different</strong>. Set yourself apart. And don’t care about the people who don’t like it</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Don’t be shortsighted when it comes to delegation of tasks</strong>. It may take you a little more time to develop the checklist or documentation which allows somebody else to do one of your mundane tasks, but it will save you a ton of time in the future and you will be free to do something more important. Not to mention, things will probably get done more quickly and reliably if you offload them from your responsibility. Just be sure to keep good responsibility of these offloaded tasks.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Don’t let your day run away with you</strong>. If you don’t pay attention to doing what is most important, right now, you will get sucked into doing whatever is in front of you.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Don’t wait for anybody</strong>. Just do your thing and they will understand.</p></li>
<li><p>Eddie Hartman’s criteria for hiring: I will hire only people whose work I would be proud to take credit for.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Give up control</strong>. It’s hard to give up control. But real progress doesn’t happen until you find somebody to trust and give up control to them. (Just don’t ignore it afterward. Manage it appropriately)</p></li>
<li><p><strong>If you are not growing, you are dying</strong>. It is true of everything in life. If you don’t workout and sweat, you are going into hibernation. If you don’t fall farther in love, you are falling out of love. If you don’t appreciate what you have, you will lose it and have worse.</p></li>
<li><p>Make other people’s decisions easy by being the safe-bet no-brainer. PROOF: Certifications, licenses, recommendations, endorsements, degrees, experience. People are terrified of making a wrong decision, so make it easy on them.</p></li>
</ul><p>*</p>

